Object oriented programming approach allows us to club together the data and behavior so that it becomes easier to code real world scenarios.
Consider the following example, where Mobile and Shoe clubs characteristics as data & purchase(), return() as it's behavior.

Once we have a template of the data and the related behavior we can use that template to create many copies.

This style of programming where we create a template and create copies from that template is called object oriented programming.
This style allows us to code for scenarios closely linked with real life.
The template we create is called a Class and the copies we create out of it is called an object.

Class & object
   Objects are real world entities.
   Anything you can describe in this world is an object. Classes on the other hand are not real.
   They are just a concept. Class is a short form of Classification.
   A class is a classification of certain objects and 
   it is just a description of the properties and behavior all objects of that classification should possess.
   Class is a like a recipe and
   the object is like the cupcake we bake using it.
   All cupcakes created from a recipe share similar characteristics like shape, sweetness, etc. 
   But they are all unique as well. One cupcake may have strawberry frosting while another might have vanilla. 
   Similarly, objects of a class share similar characteristics but they differ in their values for those characteristics.
   
What does a class contain?
   What does a recipe contain?
   It contains list of ingredients which make up the cake and the directions.
   Similarly, a class contains the properties/attributes of the object and the operations/behavior that can be performed on an object. 
   object has price and brand and we have defined that all objects which have a price and brand are considered to belong to the Mobile classification. 
   This object cannot be classified as a shoe because it does not have a material property.
   Thus we can say that this object is an example of or instance of the Mobile classification. 
   Under this classification, there can be many objects and the object shown above is an instance of or example of it.

 
